= References =

[1]	[draft-baset-tsvwg-tcp-over-udp-01] Salman A. Baset and Henning Schulzrinne, "TCP-over-UDP", baset-tsvwg-tcp-over-udp-01 (work in progress), Dec., 2009. 
[2]	[I-D.ietf-mmusic-ice]Rosenberg, J., "Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address  Translator (NAT) Traversal for Offer/Answer Protocols", draft-ietf-mmusic-ice-19 (work in progress), October 2007.
[3]	Beej Jorgensen, "Beej's Guide to Network Programming", 2009, < http://beej.us/guide/bgnet/ >.
[4]	 [RFC0793] Postel, J., "Transmission Control Protocol", STD 7, RFC 793, September 1981.
[5]	 [RFC1122] Braden, R., Editor, "Requirements for Internet Hosts -- Communication Layers", STD 3, RFC 1122, October 1989.
[6]	 [RFC2525] Paxson, V., Allman, M., Dawson, S., Fenner, W., Griner, J., Heavens, I., Lahey, K., Semke, J. and B. Volz, "Known TCP Implementation Problems", RFC 2525, March 1999.
[7]	 [RFC2581] M. Allman, V. Paxson, W. Stevens, “TCP Congestion Control”, April, 1999
[8]	[RFC2861] Mark Handley, Jitendra Padhye, and Sally Floyd, "TCP Congestion Window Validation", June, 2000.
[9]	 [RFC3782] S. Floyd, T. Henderson, and A. Gurtov, "The NewReno Modification to TCP's Fast Recovery Algorithm", April 2004
[10]	Dunigan, T. and F. Fowler, "Almost TCP over UDP", 2004, < http://www.csm.ornl.gov/~dunigan/netperf/atou.html >.
[11]	James F. Kurose, Keith W. Ross, "Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach (5th Edition) ", March 2009.
[12]	Large Receive Offload, Jonathan Corbet, Aug. 2007,
< http://lwn.net/Articles/243949/>
[13]	Tcpprobe, Linux Foundatio, <http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/networking/tcpprobe>
[14]	Netem, Linux Foundatio, <http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/networking/netem>
[15]	Generating TCP Traffic, Linux Foundatio, <http://www.linuxfoundation.org/collaborate/workgroups/networking/performance_testing>